# Linear-Regression

Linear Regression is a Machine Learning algorithm based on supervised learning. It gives a linear approach to modeling a linear relationship between a dependent variable and one or more independent variables. It can be either simple or multiple depending on the number of independent variables. It performs the task of predicting the dependent variable on the basis of the independent variables and hence fits a linear relationship between the input and the output variables. 

Here I have taken few datasets from various repositories and tried to fit a Linear Regression model on them.

First, I have taken the Student Performance dataset from UCI Machine Learning Repository. Here, a multiple linear regression model was fitted to the dataset where the variable G3 (i.e., the final score of the student) was predicted using all the other variables with accuracy 80.45%. Also, simple linear regression models were fitted with variables G1 and G2. For getting a better fit a combination of G1 and G2 was also used for the prediction. The final conclusion was: G2 or a combination of G1 and G2 gives more accuracy and hence gives a better fit to the model.

The next dataset used was Real Estate Price Prediction from Kaggle. Here, the price of the house needs to be predicted (dependent variable) on the basis of various other factors as the independent variable. A multiple linear regression model was fit using the independent variables distance to the nearest MRT station, number of convenience stores, latitude and longitude with an accuracy 79.29%. Then, simple linear regression model were fitted using each of these variables. It was clearly seen that no. of convenience stores gives a better fit for the model than latitude and longitude as it gives more accuracy.

The next dataset used was Medical Cost Personal Datasets from Kaggle. Here, a multiple linear regression model was fitted to the dataset where the variable charges  (dependent variable) was predicted using all the other variables with accuracy 91.83%. Also, a simple linear regression model was fitted with variable age (of the house) with accuracy 69.95%. It can be clearly seen that the multiple linear regression model gives a better fit for the data set as it gives more accuracy.
